THE INDIAN PENAL CODE, 1860

Section 1. Title and extent of operation of the Code.—This Act shall be called the Indian Penal Code, and shall extend to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.

Section 2. Punishment of offences committed within India.—Every person shall be liable to punishment under this Code and not otherwise for every act or omission contrary to the provisions thereof, of which he shall be guilty within India.

Section 3. Punishment of offences committed beyond, but which by law may be tried within India.—Any person liable by any Indian law to be tried for an offence committed beyond India shall be dealt with according to the provisions of this Code for any act committed beyond India in the same manner as if such act had been committed within India.

Section 4. Extension of Code to extra-territorial offences.—Whenever any person liable to be tried for an offence committed beyond India is found in any part of India, such person shall be dealt with according to the provisions of this Code for such offence as if it had been committed within India.

Section 5. Certain laws not to be affected by this Act.—The provisions of this Code shall not affect the provisions of any special or local law.

Section 6. Definition of "public servant."—Every person in the service or pay of Government in the exercise of official functions.

Section 7. Public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act.—Whoever being a public servant, accepts or obtains, or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain, from any person for himself or for any other person any gratification other than legal remuneration, as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Section 8. Effects of threats.—Threatening a person with injury to his person, reputation or property.

Section 9. Punishment for criminal intimidation.—Whoever threatens another with any injury to his person, reputation or property, with intent to cause alarm, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Section 10. Punishment for insult with intent to provoke breach of peace.—Whoever intentionally insults someone to provoke a breach of peace, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine, or with both.

...
